{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Troubleshooting Audio Input and FAQ\
\
1. I'm here and have NOT read through Help->Audio Input.\
Go read through Help-> Audio Input.\
\
2. I'm on a Linux machine and nothing's working.\
Correct. There is code for audio input, but as of yet you cannot *hear* anything you're playing. And you can't hear the background music.\
\
3. I can't hear any of the notes I'm entering through Impro-Visor (but they appear)\
Go to the MIDI menu where you set your MIDI devices, and make sure the 'echo midi notes' box is checked. \
\
4. None of my notes are being picked up.\
If you have the correct audio input devices selected (more in Help-> Audio Input), your problem probably stems from one of the following:\
	a. Your mic isn't working (a silly problem, yes, but clearly still a problem)\
	b. You haven't set your mic input sensitivity high enough. Go to your 'Sound' menu to fix this.\
	c. SuperCollider isn't running. Oops! Go (re)start it.\
	d. You started Impro-Visor before you changed the IAC Driver options (Mac) or downloaded Loopbe1(Windows). Close Impro-Visor and restart it.\
\
5. Few of my notes are being picked up.\
Inspect the following:\
	a. Are you using the correct MIDI device?\
	b. Is your playing LOUD enough? It makes a huge difference.\
	c. Your mic isn't sensitive enough.\
\
5. I'm getting double/several notes per one note played.\
You might have two instances of SuperCollider running. Kill all but one.\
\
6. My notes show up late in Impro-Visor.\
There is as a matter of course some delay involved with SuperCollider. You can compensate for it by going to the MIDI menu and clicking on the Audio Input tab. There, adjust for the delay in terms of beats. So, for example, if your notes are consistently a quarter note late in Impro-Visor, and you're working on a 4/4 lead sheet, type '1' into the delay box and press enter. Your notes will appear one beat earlier.\
\
7. I'm getting notes I didn't play.\
Possible issues:\
	a. SuperCollider is very sensitive. If there is background noise, even slight background noise, SuperCollider will pick up stray notes. Go play somewhere quiet.\
	b. You may not be playing loudly enough. Play louder.\
	c. Are the unwanted notes consistently very low or very high? You can adjust for this by adjusting the MIDI range accepted upon SuperCollider startup.\
	d. SuperCollider might be picking up pitches from the attacks of the notes you're playing. You can adjust the time between when SuperCollider registers the note and when it samples the pitch of the note - when you start SuperCollider, you will get a dialog in which you may change Attack Delay. Be warned: too much of a delay will impede playing sequences of short/fast notes.\
	e. Sometimes you will simply get wrong notes because the setup is not perfect. It helps to play with clear breaks between notes. Position your microphone so it has a clear path to your instrument sound source. Don't let it rest on any object whose vibrations/movement will feed it bad information. Good mic > bad mic. Depending on the instrument you're playing, you may be getting lots of wrong notes.\
\
8. I'm playing the tuba/piccolo and Impro-Visor is having none of it.\
Probably: You're playing very high/very low notes which, under default settings, SuperCollider won't report to Impro-Visor. Restart SuperCollider and adjust the range accordingly. \
\
9. I can't play super-fast sequences slash lots of short notes.\
That's correct. Some of this has to do with adjusting for note attack (see 7d). You can try shortening Attack Delay in the dialog opened upon SuperCollider startup, but you risk more wrong notes. Adjust as works best for you. Generally, don't anticipate playing 1/128 notes or trills of any sort.\
\
10. How am I supposed to calculate a desired note range in MIDI?\
Middle C is 60 in MIDI note value. Each half-step up and down is 1 note value greater and less, respectively. Too much math? Here is a guide:\
http://www.phys.unsw.edu.au/jw/notes.html\
\
11. SuperCollider is telling me something like:\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs26 \cf0 "input and output sample rates do not match"\
"could not initialize audio.
\fs24 "\
\
If you're on a Mac, go to your Audio MIDI Setup under Utilities. Look at input and output sample rates and make sure they are the same. If you're on Windows, go to your Sound Menu, and examine your input and output sample rates from there.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
12. None of the above.\
Sometimes simply restarting SuperCollider will help. Give it some time to settle down.\
Do you have the necessary software installed? \
Did you accidentally mute your volume?\
Is your mic plugged in?\
\
Still nothing?\
Report the problem to us. \
\
Here is our Yahoo group:\
http://launch.groups.yahoo.com/group/impro-visor/\
\
Here is our SourceForge page:\
http://sourceforge.net/projects/impro-visor/}