{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Linux Audio Input Instructions\
\
**NOTE**\
You can do audio input, but you won't be able to hear the background music from Impro-Visor or the notes you're inputting. We are working on it. That being said, here are instructions for getting what works working.\
\
**OTHER NOTE**\
This has been tested only on Ubuntu. Other distributions: please take care.\
\
1. Inside your Impro-Visor folder, inside the 'sc' folder, there is a script called linux_audio.sh. Make the script executable (navigate to the directory containing the script inside your Terminal first). Then type \
	sudo chmod u+x linux_audio.sh. \
Then type \
	sudo ./linux_audio.sh\
to run the script. This will install SuperCollider, install the necessary plugin, compile the plugin, and install necessary fast-frequency transform libraries. \
\
2. In your Terminal, type\
	sudo modprobe snd-virmidi\
\
3. Double-check to make sure your microphone is plugged in and is registering sound.\
\
4. (Re)Open Impro-Visor. From the MIDI preferences panel, choose any input source that has 'VirMIDI' in the name. Open SuperCollider (manually - will not open from Impro-Visor) and Qjackctl (installed with SuperCollider automatically).\
\
5. In the same 'sc' folder as mentioned above, open the SCPitchDetection.sc file inside SuperCollider. Highlight everything and press control+period.\
\
6. In the Qjackctl, click Start. Then click 'Connect.' In the Audio tab, make sure 'System' directs to 'SuperCollider' and vice versa. Then click on the ALSA tab. Link the 'SuperCollider' output to the same 'VirMIDI' device that you chose inside Impro-Visor.\
\
7. You are now ready to start recording. Of course, you will not be able to hear anything.}