{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green90\blue124;\red16\green60\blue192;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf2 Windows Instructions for SuperCollider Download and Use\cf0 \
\
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * \
1. Download SuperCollider. Here is the link:\
http://supercollider.sourceforge.net/downloads/\
\
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * \
2. Download the plugins for SuperCollider. Here is the link:\
http://sourceforge.net/projects/sc3-plugins/files/\
\
Save the download. The downloaded folder will be called 'SC3plugins.'\
Open a Windows Explorer window. Navigate to Users->YOUR_USER_NAME_HERE->AppData->Local->SuperCollider\
\
If you have trouble finding AppData, it is probably a hidden folder. You can visit:\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.bleepingcomputer.com/tutorials/how-to-see-hidden-files-in-windows/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs26 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://www.bleepingcomputer.com/tutorials/how-to-see-hidden-files-in-windows/}}
\f1\fs26 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone According to your version of Windows, change your settings so you can see your hidden folders.\
\
(Or, click on the address bar at the top of your explorer and type:\
C:\\Users\\YOUR_USER_NAME_HERE\\AppData\\Local\\SuperCollider)\
\
- Check to see if there is a folder called 'Extensions' inside SuperCollider. If not, create a new folder called 'Extensions.' Open the folder.\
\
-Drag the downloaded SC3plugins folder to this window. Double-click on SC3plugins. If you would like to save some space, for Impro-Visor purposes you only need the folder called 'PitchDetection,' and the file called PitchDetection.scx, so you can delete everything else, if you wish. You may exit Explorer window. Your plugins are now ready.\
\
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * \
3. In the same folder containing these instructions, there is a file called 'SCPitchDetection.sc.' Open SuperCollider if you have not already. Inside SuperCollider, open SCPitchDetection.sc. When ready to run it, highlight everything and press enter.\
\
\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf2 The following instructions are a copy of the ones found in Impro-Visor's Help->Audio Input \
menu. They deal with using SuperCollider in conjunction with Impro-Visor\cf0 \
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
\
\
4. Download 'LoopBe1' (NOT LoopBe30) here: \
http://www.nerds.de/en/download.html \
(minimal effort - don't worry) and make sure it's running and not on mute.\
\
5. Plug in your microphone and make sure it is set as your sound-in source.\
Make sure the sound sensitivity is at a satisfactory level.\
\
6. Restart Impro-Visor if it is already running. If not, run Impro-Visor.\
In Impro-Visor, go to MIDI setup and select 'LoopBe Internal MIDI', and then \
go to the Audio Input tab in MIDI setup and make sure 'Use SuperCollider' \
is checked.\
\
7. Open the 'SCPitchDetection.sc' file in SuperCollider if it is not already open. Highlight everything (as described above) and press control+enter. Another window will appear to let you select note ranges (in MIDI notes) and attack delay . SuperCollider is now ready (may take a few seconds), so you may start audio capture. You are now ready to start recording (press red circle button in Impro-Visor).\
\
\
\
PROBLEMS?\
A troubleshooting page is located in the folder 'sc' under your Impro-Visor folder.}